It had been three years since Statera had left her the message. Ahsoka had finally received word that Statera and Master Hett were returning to the Temple on Coruscant.

Ecstatic, she raced to Gir'rina's room to tell her the news.

"Rina! Rina! He's on his way back!"

She had rushed through the door, nearly tripping over Gir'rina's small pile of datacubes.

"Rinaaah!" She drawled out her name. "Watch where you put those things, I could have been hurt."

"Ahsoka, you wouldn't have run into them if you didn't rush through my door like a gundark was on your tail." Gir'rina didn't even glance toward Ahsoka as she looked at her holopad.

"Besides, you're a Jedi, you would have survived."

Ahsoka sat down on Gir'rina's bed. "Fine...but you'd need to nurse my ego back to health."

Gir'rina snorted. "Your ego is so massive a mere fall wouldn't make a dent." 

Finally, she put her holopad down, she turned to Ahsoka fully. "Now what is so important that you needed to interrupt my research again?" She said with a small smirk on her face.

Ahsoka brushed off her remark before answering. "Tera's on his way back!" She exclaimed.

Gir'rina's smirk disappeared as she looked at Ahsoka. "Truly? He's returned?"

Ahsoka beamed at her. "Yes, he should be here in a couple days."

Gir'rina moved to sit down next to her. "This is wonderful, Ahsoka!" She said, smiling, as she thought back to the times they spent together.

Ahsoka laid back. "I wonder how much he's changed..." She said, slightly wistful.

"You just want to see how good he looks now." Gir'rina teased gently.

Ahsoka rolled her eyes. "You don't have to say it out loud." She smacked Gir'rina's arm.

She and Gir'rina had spoken about Statera many times since he left. Her feelings for their friend had been brought up quite often as well.

She didn't know what those feelings were for Statera, even though she had years to introspect. Since he'd been gone for so long, she'd buried them away, even having a one-sided romance with Lux Bonteri.

His return would test her. But, at the moment, she was too excited to care.

--

A couple days later found her in the Temple hangar, watching a ship land and its two passengers disembark. 

Statera had changed quite a bit, she noted. His countenance was more confident and he had filled out quite nicely. But there was something different about him now. He felt different in the Force.

Her train of thought was interrupted when the two figures neared the small grouping of Jedi waiting for them.

Master Yoda, on his hover chair, moved forward, addressing Master Hett. "Glad you have returned, the Council is. Much to discuss, have we." The green Jedi said. "Withdraw to the Council Chamber, we shall." The aged Jedi turned and began to hover toward the Jedi Temple.

Ahsoka watched as Statera's eyes traveled over the small group of Jedi, pausing as their eyes met.

"Quite outspoken, Master Yoda is. Mmmm." He said quietly to her, winking. She blinked at his sarcastic words. Scratch what she had said earlier, Statera had changed a lot. His younger self would never have joked about the diminutive, green Jedi so brazenly.

As they headed back to the Temple, he walked next to her. She looked up at him. He'd also grown quite a bit since he'd left as well.

Neither of them spoke as they entered the Temple, following the unspoken customs of the Order. Padawans were not supposed to be disruptive in the presence of the Council. Eventually, the novice Jedi learned that it meant to be quiet unless called upon.

She stepped slightly closer to him as they trekked up to the council chamber. The two padawans remained outside as the Masters entered the council chamber.

The door hissed shut, and the silence grew deafening.

Ahsoka wasn't quite sure what she was going to say when she found herself surrounded by a pair of wiry arms. Caught off guard by Statera's sudden action, she didn't react until after he'd released her.

"I missed you, Ahsoka." He said, smiling and stepping back. "And, damn, you've grown since I've left." He said, looking over her.

She smiled, his actions reminiscent of their youth. They never bothered hiding their attachments to each other, much to the disdain of other Masters. "I missed you too, Tera."

He sat down near the entrance to the Council Chamber. She soon repeated his actions.

"You know" Ahsoka started, relaxing against the wall. "I noticed something when you stepped out of the ship."

He looked over to her as she continued.

"You feel...different now, in the Force." She said, searching for wording. "Back when we were still younglings, you had a distinct feel. It was always comforting being near you." She said, smiling.

Statera smiled as well, staring off into the distance as he found himself lost in old memories.

He didn't notice Ahsoka's change in countenance. Her words jerked him back to reality, though. "But now you feel much different..." Her voice had lost the color of happiness. "You feel closed off....to the point where I can't even tell your.....alignment, for lack of a better word. I can't tell if you're on the Light Side of the Force, or the Dark Side."

He sat down next to a wall, looking decidedly less enthused about this conversation than previously. "I'm not surprised," He said. "A lot of shit has changed since then. I'm not surprised that I'm closed off." He was quiet for a while. "Out there, in the distant reaches of the galaxy...I learned a lot about myself. It's probably a coping mechanism..."

Ahsoka let the silence encompass them for a while, as she sat down next to him. "You want to talk about it, Tera?" 

He sighed as he looked at her. "No, not really. Besides, I just got back, I don't want to ruin your perception of me just yet." He said, semi-jokingly. It helped ease the tension, if only slightly.

"All right, when you're ready." She said. Speaking with Gir'rina and Jedi mind healers had helped her understand that it was best to let grieving individuals work through things on their own time. Needlessly pushing them through grief helped very little in the recovery process. Pushing them out of a rut, however, was very helpful. The difficult part was recognizing the difference between healthy and unhealthy grief.

Statera looked at her, with a half amused smirk on his face. "That was surprisingly mature of you, 'soka." He said, teasingly.

She punched his arm. "Just because you changed while you were gone doesn't mean that the rest of us stayed the same. Besides, I've picked up a few things from the healers."

Statera rolled his eyes. "Only because Gir'rina forces you. At least you're finally learning."

Ahsoka tried to look offended at him. 

Statera merely chuckled and leaned back against the wall. Silence overtaking them again. This time, it wasn't deafening. To Ahsoka, it seemed rather comfortable.

--

The Jedi Council was decidedly annoyed, not that most of the Masters would admit to feeling such a base emotion. Anakin probably would, but even he knew it wasn't the time or the place for such comments.

The last three years A'Sharad Hett spent in the far edges of the known galaxy had turned up much information about the Sith, but very little on the current Sith Lord they were facing.

The first year had seemed promising, as the Jedi Master had found much information relating to the Sith of old. However, as time passed, he found the information that he had gleaned did not relate to the current situation. Documents on how an ancient Sith empire had functioned and artifacts from bygone eras had their place, but he was not a trained archaeologist and they were running out of time with the Clone Wars dragging on. 

As the year turned into two, then into three, A'Sharad made the decision to end the expedition and return to the Order.

"This is outrageous." Said Anakin, semi-sarcastically. His voice held no real outrage, but frustration was written over his face. "You were unable to uncover anything about the current Sith lord?"

A'Sharad Hett merely bowed in his direction. "I'm afraid that's correct, Master Skywalker. The most recent Sith lord I was able to find was Darth Gean. However, she died more than a century ago."

"Sure of her death, you are?" Yoda asked.

"Quite. My padawan and I found her tomb and interacted with her spirit. She is most certainly dead." A'Sharad responded, as Yoda sat back, contemplative.

Master Windu broke the silence. "Did you find any references to other Sith lords, Master Hett?"

"Of course; however, they were mentioned in century old texts. Many of them had been long dead before the texts were written."

Anakin sighed in frustration, but didn't speak.

Saesee Tiin spoke next, his annoyance clear in his voice. "Well, did these texts have anything useful in them? Perhaps ways we could use to recognize new lords of the Sith?"

Hett merely turned his head in Tiin's direction. "I'm afraid that could be up for debate. While many of these texts were in ancient languages, we were able to translate them. Many seemed to be historical accounts of the Sith of old, which could be potentially useful in recognizing new Sith lords. The rest seemed to be on old Sith magic and Dark Side practices." A'Sharad Hett said evenly. "I did note that the number of documents on Sith and Dark Side practices seemed to be quite small. Almost like there was a purge with the Sith...." He said, speaking as though he just realized that fact.

"Good riddance." Saesee Tiin said, rather dismissive of A'Sharad Hett's answer. "You destroyed the remaining Sith relics, I hope." 

"I did not. I did not think it was my place to remove such knowledge from the universe. I believe it is the Council's prerogative to decide what should be done. That is why I've brought them here."

Yoda, recognizing the dissent growing in the room, spoke before the Council devolved into a debate for or against the destruction of the relics. "Speak on this later, we will. More to say, Master Hett has."

Saesee Tiin grumpily quieted down and returned his attention to A'Sharad Hett.

"Thank you, Master Yoda." A'Sharad said, bowing in the direction of the aforementioned Jedi. 

"While we may not have found any clues to the identity of our current Sith lord, the artefacts and documents we recovered could be useful for the Jedi Order to study." A'Sharad Hett offered. It wasn't what they were looking for, but it was far better than returning empty-handed. His padawan has shown him how useful even Dark Side artefacts could be. The biggest obstacle would be convincing the Council.

Adi Gallia spoke next. "Are these the Sith documents you mentioned earlier?"

A'Sharad Hett turned to her. "Surprisingly, no. While the majority of what we recovered is most definitely Sith, quite a few artefacts are Jedi or even Republic in origin. We've dated most of these artefacts to be from the Old Republic Era."

This caused quite a few eyebrows to be raised. While the Jedi Archives were enormous, they had only truly been in place for the last 2500 years. There had been many attacks and Sith purges in the past, causing much of the knowledge of old to be lost.

"I believe I speak for us all when I say the Council is pleased with your work, Master Hett." Mace Windu said with a hint of praise in his voice. The rest of the Council nodded and mumbled in agreement. "While you were unable to complete your mission, your discoveries are a very welcome surprise."

"More to report, have you, Master Hett?" Master Yoda queried.

A'Sharad shook his head negatively. "That is all, Master Yoda."

"Speak later, we shall. Much to ponder, we have." Yoda said, sounding wise.

--

As the council members left the room, either through the front door or the power button on their individual holocams, Statera and Ahsoka rose and waited for their respective masters. 

"Well, it looks like our two padawans didn't waste any time finding each other." A sarcastic voice said. Statera found himself looking at the hero of the Republic, Anakin Skywalker.

"It would seem so." A'Sharad Hett responded. "Master Skywalker, this is my padawan, Statera I-won't-say-my-last-name. Statera, I do believe you know who Master Skywalker is." He turned back to Anakin. "I do believe my padawan has a proposal for you, if you would hear him out." Turning again, to face Statera, he added. "I'll try to find Master Fisto and extend the same offer to him."

"Thanks, Master." Statera responded.

Statera faced Anakin as A'Sharad Hett disappeared down the hall.

"I must say, I'm curious to hear about this proposal, Mr. I-won't-say-my-last-name. I hope it's not of the conjugal nature." Anakin said, smirking at the padawan.

"Why, Master, I didn't know you knew such obscure words. What other secrets are you hiding?" The snarky tone of Ahsoka turning the human's smirk into a frown at the Togruta. "And, for the record, his last name is-" Her mouth suddenly found itself covered by a hand.

"Rest assured, Master Skywalker, my proposal does not break the Order's archaic rules." Statera responded, keeping his hand over Ahsoka's mouth.

"Well, you've got my interest, kid." Anakin replied. "Whaddya want?"

Statera smirked. "I would like to challenge you and Master Fisto to a sparing match."

Anakin's lips soon rose, copying Statera's. "Interesting proposal... There's no way I'll be missing this."

Ahsoka was less enthusiastic. Pulling his hand away from her mouth, she spoke again. "Are you sure you're all right, Tera? Master Fisto is the one of the best duelists in the Order! And Master Skywalker is no slouch either." She added, under lighthearted glare from Anakin.

"That'll make it more fun." Statera responded, an annoyingly confident grin on his face.

"If you get stuck in the infirmary, I'll sic Gir'rina on you." Ahsoka threatened.

The grin remained on his face. "Then I'll have to do my best to avoid that, Padawan Tano." He mockingly bowed in her direction.

Ahsoka exasperatedly looked between her old friend and her master, before an idea popped into her head. "Fine! If you lose, then I get to be your nanny droid until you heal."

Anakin's grin started to look forced. "I wouldn't take her up on this, Statera." He said, sounding quite serious. "I'm serious." His words echoed. "She can be evil when she puts her mind to it."

"I appreciate the concern, but I think I'll be fine." Anakin shook his head, respecting Statera's self-confidence but slightly worried about the young human's wellbeing. "Besides, I've known her longer than you. I know just how bad she can be." Statera noted Anakin didn't seem reassured by his words. Maybe Ahsoka had gotten more sadistic in the last few years... Oh well, he'd find out when the time came.

"When would you be available, Master Skywalker?" Statera interrupted his own thought processes.

Anakin's reply was quick. "Well, I don't return to the front lines until the Council decides on my next mission, so I'm free until then. Whenever that is." He said the last part with a hint of annoyance. He preferred to be on the battlefield. Sitting around was driving him mad. "The duel's timing will all depend on Master Fisto."

Statera bowed in response. "Thank you, Master Skywalker. I'll let you know about Master Fisto's response when I receive it."

Anakin rolled his eyes. "Cut with the formalities, Stat. I'm not a fan of them."

The newly dubbed Stat copied Anakin. "Finally! And you're the second person who's taken to calling me Stat. Most seem to prefer 'Tera'." He said, elbowing Ahsoka. He changed the subject. "Anyways, I was planning to steal your apprentice for a while, got years of catching up to do and all that." He said, being purposefully vague to hopefully get a rise out of Anakin. Or Ahsoka. He was disappointed in both cases, though.

"Well, if you're going to ask my permission, then it wouldn't be stealing..." Anakin countered.

"I know. I just thought I'd tell you ahead of time in the spirit of courtesy." He said.

Ahsoka rolled her eyes and grabbed his arm. "Come on, 'Stat'. Years of catching up to do, remember?" She started to drag him away.

Anakin shook his head in amusement. It may have been years and he may have only heard stories, but the two still shared a close bond. He began walking, leaving the empty hallway to find something to escape the impending boredom. Why couldn't the council decide on his mission faster?
