"Hold up, I need to grab something from the ship." Statera said, soon after leaving Anakin behind.

Ahsoka stopped pulling him and gave him a questioning look.

Statera turned them toward a turbolift. "You'll see once we find Gir'rina. It's one of my 'secrets'." He said, in a rather loud stage whisper.

She merely rolled her eyes at him. "Fine, I suppose we can make a quick stop."

They made their way quickly to the hangar bay.

Statera unlocked the ship and brought Ahsoka inside.

She looked around as he left to find whatever it was he needed.

The interior of the ship was rather plain, at least to her eyes. There wasn't much in the way of decoration and piles of holocubes could be found on random tables and even floors. A couple of piles even looked like they had a holocron mixed in with them.

She picked it up and looked it over, frowning as she felt darkness inside. The design was different from the Jedi holocrons she had used previously. A pyramid in shape, it had a multitude of deep red and black markings covering it.

Statera walked back in, carrying a small pack. "Ah, you found Nihilus' holocron."

Placing the holocron back, she turned to face him. "Nihilus?"

He nodded. "Darth Nihilus. An old dark lord of the Sith and a literal wound in the Force. Capable of consuming the Force from any living being."

She was silent for a few seconds before finally asking the question he was expecting. "Then why the kriff do you have it lying out in the open?"

Statera merely smirked at her.

That facial expression was becoming less endearing by the second, Ahsoka thought.

Statera used the Force to pick up the Holocron and levitate it between them. A few seconds later, the holocron began to open.

The eerie visage of Darth Nihilus appeared before them. The darkness was palpable now, nearly overwhelming. The visage of Nihilus whispered dark secrets, distinctly not in Basic, but still understandable through the Force, like all holocrons.

Ahsoka felt sick from dark energy flowing from the holocron. She never realized she was retreating until her back hit the wall of the ship. As Statera closed the holocron again, she slowly felt better.

"That is why we left it in the open, Ahsoka. The ability to open it is beyond most Jedi." He said. "The darkness within is too much for most Jedi to withstand."

He ignored her questioning look and began to walk out of the ship. "Come on, we've got to meet Gir'rina, remember?"

[They also have the holocrons of Darth Andeddu and Darth Bane]

--

[head to Gir'rina's room]
[talk about shit]
[maybe bring up deep shit Tera's resistant to speaking about it]
[time skip to fight?]

Statera followed Ahsoka to Gir'rina's room. He learned from Ahsoka that Gir'rina had moved a few times in the last few years. She was one of many unlucky padawans that lost their masters' in the War. [It was only a few weeks ago that she had lost her second master.] It made Statera glad he grabbed his little gift for Gir'rina. It could act like a distraction as she processed everything.

They were greeted by a depressed, but still happy Twi'lek as soon as they entered the door.

"Tera! You did return!" She said, her phrasing, as always, simple and direct.

Statera stepped forward and wrapped her into a tight hug. "I see you still haven't given up on that name, Rina."

Gir'rina merely rolled her eyes at him when they separated. "Of course I haven't. I was the first one to use it on you, and I'll be the last one."

Statera sent a mock glare at her for a few seconds. "Oh, I've got a present for you!" He said, his face instantly losing the glare.

[Gir'rina merely rolled her eyes as separated. "Of course not. You know how she]
[he also has Force amplifying gauntlet to give Gir'rina]
[Motherfucker. These conversations are hard. I don't get anywhere and it feels like it's all just bland, basic shit. I'll need to rewrite. Might as well skip up to the fight for now.]

[Have Gir'rina lose a couple masters? They fight in the war while she is in the field hospitals. Could keep her at the temple, but it seems like a waste especially since the Clone Wars is going on.]

--

Ahsoka stood next to A'Sharad Hett as they waited for the three combatants to finish getting warmed up. She was rather worried about her newly returned friend, challenging two of the top duelists in the Order wasn't something to be done lightly.

"Aren't you at least concerned, Master Hett?" She asked the quiet Jedi.

"My padawan can take care of himself, Padawan Tano." Was the reply.

"But-" She started.

"My padawan can take care of himself." A'Sharad repeated. "Besides, he has learned a few tricks while under my tutelage." He said with a grin reminiscent of Statera.

Not quite reassured, she looked back at her friend. He looked calm as he stretched, not at all worried about the impending fight.

He finally stood and waited for the others to finish, casually glancing at them before looking over at Ahsoka. He grinned at her, which was surprisingly more reassuring than his Master's words had been.

Kit Fisto and her master, Anakin, had taken up their lightsabers, waiting for confirmation for the duel to begin.

----

Statera looked at the two Jedi, studying them slightly before glancing at Ahsoka. She had grown quite a bit since his departure, both physically and in the Force.

Flashing a smile at her, he noted how much more powerful she felt in the Force. It shone through her, strongly but more far more gentle than it had in the past. 

'She's gained more control over the Force. Skywalker must be good for her.' He thought.

As the other Jedi took up their lightsabers, he pulled himself back to the present. It was time to have fun.

["Master Skywalker, Master Fisto. While I traveled the galaxy with Master Hett, we discovered many artifacts and techniques lost to the ages, many dating even back to the Old Republic. Today, we will find out just how well you would fare against the Jedi of old." He said in a cocky tone. The tone wasn't completely forced, either. Statera knew his strengths and he was confident he could handle the two Jedi masters. That is, he could handle them until they took him seriously.] [Not sure I like this. He seems arrogant and overly powerful. Might change this so it's more insidious.]

He ignited his lightsabers, a smile crossing his face as his opponents circled him. 

He'd taken to fighting with dual lightsabers after a particularity dangerous mission. With the additional training he received from the ancient holocrons found on his journey, fighting with two lightsabers quickly became as easy as fighting with one.

As one, Anakin and Windu rushed Statera from opposite sides. Splitting a fighter's attention was a good way to knock them off balance, ending fights in the early stages if the opposing warriors were good.

The blue and green lightsabers cut through empty air as the owners were flung across the arena.

"The first lesson I relearned was simple, remember the Force. Let it guide your blade." Statera said, semi-arrogantly, quoting the words each Jedi was told as they first took up their training saber.

He went on the offensive. With blinding speed, he rushed at Anakin. His blades crackled loudly as they collided with Anakin's barely successful block.

Unfortunately, Anakin's luck ran out as Statera's lightsabers twisted with impossible speed, forcing his blade from his hand.

Immediately, Statera turned to meet Fisto's attack, leaving Anakin in minor shock at his speed.

"My second lesson. Use the Force." Statera said, making a small flicking motion toward Fisto.

The green [maybe go with species?] Jedi master went flying backwards as the Force, well, forced him off his feet.

Looking back at Anakin, Statera watched as the Jedi master cautiously circled him again. He smirked, recognizing what was occurring. The two Masters were reassessing him, they were beginning to treat him like a real enemy rather than an impertinent youngling.

Kit Fisto and Anakin Skywalker looked at each other for a split-second before attacking Statera again.

----

To say that the next moments of the fight were epic would be an understatement. To the observers, it quickly became obvious that, if Statera had taken on a single opponent, he would have been toying with the poor Jedi.

Ahsoka stared on in awe at her friend's abilities.

"You'll want to close your mouth, Padawan Tano. It is not becoming of a Jedi to gawk." A'Sharad's amused voice shook her out of her trance.

Blushing slightly, she responded. "I apologize, Master Hett. You were right, though, Tera's learned much. I shouldn't have doubted him."

A'Sharad chuckled at her words. "He's having fun right now. If he ever sheaths his lightsabers, that means he has taken the fight very seriously. I've seen him like that a handful of times..." His voice trailed off as he thought back. Shaking his head slightly, he finished his sentence. "He doesn't like taking fights seriously."

Curious, Ahsoka tried probing. "Why?"

A'Sharad shook his head again. "It is not my place, Padawan Tano. It is something you should ask of him." A'Sharad hoped planting this curiosity would help Statera open up again. Perhaps not to him, but he hoped Ahsoka might help where he could not.

A'Sharad turned his attention back to the fight. His apprentice was now using some rather obscure uses of the Force. While the Jedi still used the Force to increase their agility and reflexes, it was a less effective technique than what the Jedi used one thousand years in the past. The long lasting peace had caused much atrophy in the Order.

----

Statera was dancing between the two masters, keeping the Jedi on the defensive. Even when they were able to get an attack, it was quickly countered by the young padawan. His movements reminded the observers of Master Yoda's, precise and quick.

He ended his assault by sending the two flying across the room.

["That was Force Speed. I find it to be more refined than the techniques taught today." He said as the two Jedi reengaged him. His voice had lost a bit of its arrogant tone.] [Again, same reason I'm cutting out the earlier stuff. Don't like it, need to smooth it out]

[He leapt back, simultaneously pushing the two masters away from him again. He made a quick decision and sped toward Fisto, briefly attacking him before speeding away.

Fisto turned to attack Statera again but was forced to retreat as Anakin started to attack him.

"Skywalker, what are you doing?" He demanded, deflecting the assaults from his supposed ally.]
[Don't think I'll keep this. Maybe have him learn it later. Statera doesn't exactly need to use Sith Magic in the Jedi Temple.]


